---
title: 'Intro'
date: 2024-06-07
permalink: /posts/2024/06/blog-post-2/
tags:
  - MDAnalysis
  - MDonatello
  - 2D Visualization
---

This week the official coding part of the MDAnalysis Project started. The project that I am working on is focusing upon the 2D visualization of small molecules in MDAnalysis. 
For this I am using currently the RDKit Drawer tool. Overall the project looks quite fine and I am glad to work with Cedric, Yuxuan & Richard and get their epxertise in coding, since I think I can learn
a lot from them in regards to coding. Already during the application I learned partially the structure, how to build a Project and how the Workflow with Issues and PR requests works, since before I was
just commiting everything in the repositories, but now at least I am learning how to do it more structured. Also it is nice to have the MDAKits cookie-cutter in the project, since it makes it easier to build the
project.

But back to the project, I now had the meeting this week, where I showed the first parts of the code, which allow the user to see the 2D visualization of the molecules in a Jupyter notebook and currently the options
are to see aromatic rings and atom indices in addition to physiochemical properties and number of hydrogen bond donors and acceptors. So far so good. I would want to add maybe a IUPac naming of the molecules, that
would be nice and there is a package that does it, so I would test it out. Else I would see if it works with multiple ligands as input currently, add tests and also add pharmacophores and functional groups, that
are present in the molecule, which would be highlighted via clicking on the checkboxes. These are the main ideas right now that I would focus on. The blog is bi-weekly, so next post next/next*2 week.

The XX - Intro
